let's bring you up to date with the
latest from Gaza the Hamas run Health
Ministry there says Israeli fire has
killed at least 20 people waiting for
humanitarian Aid and injured another 150
Israel says it's looking into the report
the Israeli military says it's fighting
Hamas militants At Close Quarters in
hunus as it seeks to dismantle the group
which is classified as a terror
organization by several
countries maed bodies fill the alifa
hospital in a city after an Israeli
attack desperate people were waiting for
a rare delivery of food amid a growing
famine the UN says gsin are facing the
highest levels of food insecurity ever
recorded with over 90% of the population
surviving on less than one meal a day we
were waiting for the truck springing
flour then Israeli tanks hit us with
four shells young people were martyred
and others injured I was hit in the feet
and hand
meanwhile in southern Gaza Israeli
forces say they have surrounded the city
of Han Yunis they ordered people in the
western part of the city to leave among
them over 30,000 displaced Gins who had
taken shelter at a un facility which had
earlier come under
attack we went inside the agency's
school in Han Unis where they said it
was safe the Israeli Army started
telling as and L speakers to leave
within half an hour we started running
and didn't know what our families and
children were I gave birth 3 days ago
not where at the sea and don't know
where to go or where our families
are unable to leave the strip gaza's 2.3
million people are being squeezed into
an Ever smaller area as battles spread
with no idea how long the fighting will
go on or when they'll have to flee
again for more and joined Now by DW's
Tanya Kramer in Jerusalem Tanya we're
hearing about new mediation efforts
between the Waring parties there could
this be another truce in the
making well I mean it's right that there
are more and more reports but it's the
nature uh you know of these talks behind
the scenes that nothing is really
confirmed and also depending on the
source some are saying the gaps are
still uh uh very wide and others say the
gaps are narrowing between the sides but
there were reports uh uh saying that uh
the heads of the CIA and of the Israeli
mosad are supposedly meeting uh uh in
the coming days somewhere in Europe with
the katari and Egyptian mediators um uh
for a potentially a new uh hostage deal
the Israeli War cabinet has also met on
Thursday night uh discussing uh a
potential uh uh deal or new uh ceasefire
so this would entail a temporary Seas as
it is reported in the media um a phased
a release uh of those remaining hostages
uh in Gaza in exchange for Palestinian
prisoners held in Israeli uh prisons now
we also know that Hamas has always asked
for a permanent ceasefire for guarantees
that the fighting will not restart
afterwards and that Israeli troops uh
would uh withdraw completely uh from
Gaza so there are about 13 2 uh Israeli
hostages that remain in Gaza including
28 that are presumed to have been killed
and there is a lot of pressure in Israel
on the Israeli government uh to come to
a new deal as you know relatives are
saying uh time is running out for these
hostages
there Tanya the international court of
justice is due to make a preliminary
ruling today on whether or not to order
Israel to suspend its military campaign
in Gaza how does Israel view those
deliberations that are taking place in
the
hake well I think it's very uh closely
watched uh especially uh you know uh
today when we expecting um some a
decision uh later this afternoon um
there is a sense in Israel that uh
basically the um you know it shouldn't
have come to this court case at all
there's a support of the official line
that Israel has the right to defend
itself there's a a majority that
supports uh the War uh in Gaza and also
saying that uh the world should look at
the atrocities that were committed by
Hamas on October uh 7th and we heard
this again also from one of the
government spokespersons here in Israel
on Thursday saying uh these are charges
ridiculous charges they are baseless and
that they're expecting that the court
should dismiss the court case
altogether Tanya thank you very much
that was our correspondent Tanya Kramer
in
Jerusalem